# Basic Moves

## Hack and Slash

When you **attack an enemy in melee**, roll+Str. On a 10+ you deal your damage
to the enemy and avoid their attack. At your option, you may choose to do +1d6
damage but expose yourself to the enemy’s attack. On a 7–9, you deal your
damage to the enemy and the enemy makes an attack against you.

## Volley

When you **take aim and shoot at an enemy at range**, roll+Dex. On a 10+ you
have a clear shot—deal your damage. On a 7–9, choose one \(whichever you
choose you deal your damage\):

  * You have to move to get the shot placing you in danger of the GM’s choice
  * You have to take what you can get: -1d6 damage
  * You have to take several shots, reducing your ammo by one.

## Defy Danger

When you **act despite an imminent threat** or **suffer a calamity**, say how
you deal with it and roll. If you do it…

  * …by powering through, +Str
  * …by getting out of the way or acting fast, +Dex
  * …by enduring, +Con
  * …with quick thinking, +Int
  * …through mental fortitude, +Wis
  * …using charm and social grace, +Cha

On a 10+, you do what you set out to, the threat doesn’t come to bear. On a
7–9, you stumble, hesitate, or flinch: the GM will offer you a worse outcome,
hard bargain, or ugly choice.

## Defend

When you **stand in defense of a person, item, or location** under attack,
roll+Con. On a 10+, hold 3. On a 7–9, hold 1. So long as you stand in defense,
when you or the thing you defend is attacked you may spend hold, 1 for 1, to
choose an option:

  * Redirect an attack from the thing you defend to yourself
  * Halve the attack’s effect or damage
  * Open up the attacker to an ally giving that ally +1 forward against the attacker
  * Deal damage to the attacker equal to your level

## Spout Lore

When you **consult your accumulated knowledge about something**, roll+Int. On
a 10+ the GM will tell you something interesting and useful about the subject
relevant to your situation. On a 7–9 the GM will only tell you something
interesting—it’s on you to make it useful. The GM might ask you “How do you
know this?” Tell them the truth, now.

## Discern Realities

When you **closely study a situation or person**, roll+Wis. On a 10+ ask the
GM 3 questions from the list below. On a 7–9 ask 1. Take +1 forward when
acting on the answers.

  * What happened here recently?
  * What is about to happen?
  * What should I be on the lookout for?
  * What here is useful or valuable to me?
  * Who’s really in control here?
  * What here is not what it appears to be?

## Parley

When you **you have leverage on a GM character and manipulate them**,
roll+Cha. Leverage is something they need or want. On a hit they ask you for
something and do it if you make them a promise first. On a 7–9, they need some
concrete assurance of your promise, right now.

## Aid or Interfere

When you **help or hinder someone you have a bond with**, roll+Bond with them.
On a 10+ they take +1 or -2, your choice. On a 7–9 you also expose yourself to
danger, retribution, or cost.